.TH GENERATE-PASSWORD 1 "June 2023" "generate-password 1.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
generate-password \- Generate a password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B generate-password
[\fI\-\-length <minimum>\fR] [\fI\-\-max\-length <maximum>\fR]
[\fI\-\-digest <name>\fR]

.B generate-password
\fI\-\-password\fR <password>
[\fI\-\-hex\-salt\fR <hex>] | [\fI\-\-salt\fR <salt>]
[\fI\-\-digest <name>\fR]

.B generate-password
\fI\-\-list-digests\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is used to generate or encrypt a password from your command line.
The tool currently supports three commands.
.PP
By default the command generates a new password.
In that case you can specific the minimum length with \-\-length and
the maximum length with \-\-max\-length. You can also change the default
digest with the \-\-digest option.
.PP
If you have a password that you want to encrypt, use the \-\-password 
command (\fBIMPORTANT:\fR the password will be visible in the /proc
system, so commands such as ps -ef will display it in clear).
You may use the \-\-salt or \-\-hex\-salt options to change the salt
used to encrypt the password. You can also change the default digest
with the \-\-digest option.
.PP
Finally, the last command is the \-\-list\-digests, which allows you to
see the list of available digest names. All of these can be used with the
\-\-digest command line option when generating or encrypting a password.

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR | \fB\-\-digest\fR <name>
By default, the SHA512 digest is used. It is very efficient, but not as
good a bcrypt in terms of safety. This option allows you to change the
default to a name as displayed by the \-\-list\-digest command.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR | \fB\-\-salt\fR <salt>
.TP
\fB\-S\fR | \fB\-\-hex\-salt <hex>
Pass your own salt to the command to encrypt the password. This option
is taken in account only when the \fB\-\-password\fR command is used.
The <salt> option is taken as is. It must be exactly 32 bytes.
The <hex> option is transformed to binary from a hexadecimal string.
The string must represent 32 bytes. When not specified, the salt is
generated automatically.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR | \fB\-\-length\fR <length>
Define the minimum length of the generated password. Note that the smallest
minimum length is 8. This command line option will not allow you to reduce
that minimum.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR | \fB\-\-list\-digest\fR
This command is used to list the names of all the available digests.
Some digests are not worth using. For example, MD5 is not strong enough
to encrypt passwords.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR
Print out a help screen. This includes all the default commands, how to
get the long help screen, etc.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR | \fB\-\-max\-length\fR <length>
Define the maximum length of the generated password. The maximum must be
larger (or equal) to the minimum. The default and maximum for this number
is 4,000.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-password\fR <password>
Specify the password to encrypt instead of having the tool generate it.
You can also specify the \-\-salt or \-\-hex\-salt with this command.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexis Wilke <alexis@m2osw.com>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/m2osw/safepasswords/issues>.
.br
iplock home page: <https://snapwebsites.org/project/safepasswords>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011-2024  Made to Order Software Corp.  All Rights Reserved
.br
License: GPLv3
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
